Hey there, welcome back. In this video,
I wanted to do a big picture view of the
CQRA fine-tuning or training pipeline.
Uh we are sharing the git repository
along with this lesson, this video. Uh
but I thought before we do a full walk
through the code, uh it will be
important to map out the journey and see
what are the key steps we are going
through. Uh without that highle view, I
think it would be easy to get lost in
the details. Uh also I thought like if
we just did a very detailed walk through
the code uh first it will be boring uh
second it will be a long video and then
third uh it's just uh not something that
anyone would enjoy because uh you know
you're looking at just code and uh
really the the only reason only time you
want to look through other code is when
you're actually working through it. So I
would recommend when you get to your own
project that's when you start working
through the the code and maybe try to
implement your own thing or you can
start with the code repository we have
provided. Still uh it's always good to
start with a big picture view. So let's
do that in this video. Okay. So uh yeah
this this is uh part of week three.
There's a lesson around the Qura full
pipeline. Uh we cover both the training
and evaluation in this lesson. I will
talk about that at a high level for both
of these workflows. Okay. So with the
training side which is what we call
fine-tuning because we are taking a
pre-trained uh instruct model and
training it on our own custom uh our own
data set. In our case it's Samsung Sam
Samsung summarization data set. So all
right what are the highle steps so first
of course we load the data set we are
getting this directly from from hugging
face uh the next step is pre-processing
I'll walk through some of those details
you should look for there's a full video
we are putting just uh that's coming
right after this one which is going
through the the details of the
pre-processing the most important really
part uh when you're talking about
fine-tuning LLMs uh then we have the
model setup you load the base model and
the lura adapters and you put together a
pft model uh then there's the training
step and that's where you're training
the the uh the LoRa adapters on the data
set that has been proc pre-process in
the right structure and finally once the
training is done you're going to save
these these adapters which uh I'll uh
next we'll talk about the evaluation
workflow. All right so let me uh still
talk about a very high level some of the
important things that you should be
watching out for. So first when we load
the data set again we're getting it from
the uh hugging face uh platform and uh
for the training workflow of course we
need the training split of it. uh you
can choose u uh to work with a smaller
subset of the uh of the data set or
depending on your uh choice of how long
you can you want the training uh
pipeline to run. Uh but yeah, that's
part of it is just picking the split.
Okay. Uh on the pre-processing side, I
want to caution you that the hardest
part in LLM fine-tuning really the the
part where things go south is uh most
likely to go south or go wrong is the
pre-processing stage. I found this one
to be the most confusing to me. uh I
found myself imagining I understood what
is happening and uh going through the
exercise and then running into
challenges and then going deeper and
thinking oh now I get it I had missed
this part and then going through the
exercise and then finding out I had
still missed something along the way and
so I do want to talk uh you know this is
why we decided to create a very separate
video spec specifically about
pre-processing so yeah in in the
pre-processing stages some important
steps here so we start with the sample
Right? The data set includes samples,
you can call them examples of
conversations and then the the ground
truth summary of it. So they had to be
structured a certain way to train uh to
feed into the training pipeline. And so
the high level steps there are you take
the original example you build the
messages from it. uh if you remember if
you worked with uh let's say the API
based um chat completion uh APIs uh you
will see that you actually have to
convert the your prompt into a message
structure. So there's a user prompt and
then uh there's a system or assistant
prompt and you just put them together
right the role and the content structure
of chat uh messages. So that's the first
step. Uh next we have the chat template
being applied to it. We'll again talk in
detail about it why uh chat template and
what is exactly happening. Uh there's a
tokenization step that comes after and
then the assistant only masking. We
covered these concepts in week two. Uh
but it's still I'm telling you might
have thought you understood it if that
was the first time you went through it.
Uh this is where things go wrong and
they've gone wrong for us many times and
we've had to like figure out what went
where did we miss mess up. Okay. So
that's uh the pre-processing step. U
there will be a lot of code related to
that in the code repository. Uh next we
have the model setup. Uh the key part
there to remember is that you're going
to load a base model. uh in quantized
form and then you're going to take the
Lora adapters and those Lora adapters
are going to be full precision and then
you put together the PEFT model right so
that's that's uh you're only training
the Lora layers within the u within the
network uh the training part uh there's
a lot of training arguments that you
have to know about um this is like
classical neural network training you
have to know a few things about what
you're planning to do there and then of
course because you're working with large
language models you have to worry about
memory so there's some tricks you have
to do about batching the data
uh gradient accumulation and those kinds
of things you'll need to worry about.
That's again we'll cover that in video
three after this. So this is the first
one which is overview. Next we'll go
through pre-processing. The third video
we'll talk about the uh the highle
overview of training. So that we will
talk about the trainer in that video. Uh
and then once you run the training at
the end of it you will have the saved
adapters which uh we only save the
adapters. You don't need to save the
base model. Right? So as you go through
the pipeline and as you go through the
code in the repository, always be aware
that you're in uh in one of these steps
and you're doing one of these these
things that are shown on this chart.
Okay? So don't get lost in the the
boiler plate code that you're going to
see. It seems like alien you can always
take that code and drop it into chat gd
or cloud window and say explain to me
what's happening and you will get a
pretty good idea of what's going on. So
um again I wanted you to have that high
level overview before you dive into the
code. Okay let me do the same thing with
the evaluation pipeline. Okay and um
after that uh the next video we get into
the more more granular details. So uh as
you see at the end of training we're
going to have these saved adapters and
really that's the starting point for the
evaluation pipeline right we well you're
first going to load the data set that's
the first step but you're really again
taking the validation or the test grid
whichever one you're using for
evaluation uh of course for most of the
exercise here we working with the
validation set we'll use the test set at
the very very end. So yeah, you have the
validation split and then we will load
the PET model which is you load the base
model um and then you also load the the
trained lura adapters, put them
together, use it to generate the
predictions. Uh by the way, let me back
up a little bit. You could have saved uh
the uh you could have merged the two
models and saved them together, but it
doesn't really make sense to do that
because you're just going to save a
large model. And so the the the pattern
is usually just save the lura adapters.
Okay. So just uh in case you want to
just know why why don't we just merge
them together the base and the the lower
adaptors you can do that. Uh but uh no
really no no need to do that. Okay. So
that is the highle overview. Uh I
mentioned make sure you are never
getting lost in the steps. You're always
aware of where you are in that journey
right whether you're looking at the uh
the evaluation workflow which you're
seeing here or the training workflow uh
the cula training workflow and you'll
always be looking at a particular step
in it. So also be aware why you are
doing certain things why we do uh why we
apply the chat template why do the why
we do the c the tokenization a certain
way and the assistant masking applied a
certain way uh just be aware of it and
if you do know that then maybe you'll
write your own code uh you don't have to
use our code here in the repository you
can do your own thing or at least play
around with it okay all right I hope you
found this useful to just get started
and the remaining three videos uh by the
way in this same lesson you're going to
see uh go through the code walk through
first one pre-processing We'll do a lot
more detail dive into that. Then we do a
highle code walk through of the entire
training pipeline which also ends up
with the saving of the adaptors. And
then the last video, the fourth video
will be uh the evaluation pipeline which
is pretty straightforward in that case.
Okay. Uh we'll see you in the next
video. Thank you. Bye.